doc(backup): configurable bkup block size (#1164)
longhorn/website: content/docs/1.10.0/snapshots-and-backups/backup-and-restore/configure-backup-block-size.md

---
title: Configure The Block Size Of Backup
weight: 2
---

## Backup Blocks In Longhorn

> A Longhorn backup is a collection of data fragments derived from a snapshot, with each fragment referred to as a block. Blocks are the fundamental units for data processing, transmission, and storage in the backup target. For a given backup, all blocks have a uniform physical size. Prior to Longhorn v1.10.0, the backup block size was fixed at 2 MiB. Starting with Longhorn v1.10.0, users can specify the backup block size when creating a volume. The backup block size is immutable for a created volume. The backup block size information is available on the Longhorn volume detail page, and all backups created from a volume will use the block size specified during the volume's creation.

Reviewer: > users can specify the backup block size when creating a volume.

We currently only supports 2MiB and 16MiB

> A Longhorn backup is a collection of data fragments derived from a snapshot, with each fragment referred to as a block. Blocks are the fundamental units for data processing, transmission, and storage in the backup target. For a given backup, all blocks have a uniform physical size. Prior to Longhorn v1.10.0, the backup block size was fixed at 2 MiB. Starting with Longhorn v1.10.0, users can specify the backup block size when creating a volume. The backup block size is immutable for a created volume. The backup block size information is available on the Longhorn volume detail page, and all backups created from a volume will use the block size specified during the volume's creation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A Longhorn backup is composed of data fragments derived from a snapshot, where each fragment is called a block. Blocks are the fundamental units used for processing, transmission, and storage in the backup target. All blocks within a single backup have the same physical size.

Prior to Longhorn v1.10.0, the backup block size was fixed at **2 MiB**. Starting in Longhorn v1.10.0, users can configure the backup block size during **volume creation**. This value is immutable once the volume is created. The block size used for backups is displayed on the volume detail page in the Longhorn UI, and all backups for a volume will use the size defined at creation.
```

> The backup block size impacts the efficiency of backup creation and storage. Generally, larger block sizes reduce the number of blocks, improving backup transmission efficiency and lowering the API request overhead with the backup target. However, larger block sizes require more zero-padding within block files, increasing the overall physical storage footprint of the backup, and requiring more memory during backup creation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Impact of Backup Block Size

The selected block size affects the efficiency of backup creation and storage:

1. Larger block sizes reduce the total number of blocks, improving transmission efficiency and reducing the number of API requests to the backup target.
2. However, larger block sizes can increase the physical storage footprint due to zero-padding and require more memory during backup creation.
```

## Global Default Backup Block Size

> A global setting allows users to configure the default backup block size when creating a volume. If the backup block size is not specified during volume creation, the system will apply the value defined in `Settings > General > Default Backup Block Size` for that volume.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A global setting allows users to define the default backup block size for new volumes. If a backup block size is not explicitly set during volume creation, Longhorn will apply the default value defined under:

```
Settings > General > Default Backup Block Size
```
```

## Create a Volume And Specify The Backup Block Size

> To create a backup with specific backup block size,
> 
> 1. Navigate to the **Volume** menu.
> 2. Click **Create Volume.**
> 3. Select the desired backup block size in the volume creation dialog.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To specify a custom backup block size during volume creation:

1. Navigate to the **Volume** menu.
2. Click **Create Volume**.
3. In the volume creation dialog, select the desired **Backup Block Size**.
```

## Specify The Backup Block Size In The Storage Class

> For volumes created using a Persistent Volume Claim (PVC), the backup block size can be specified in the `parameters` field of the StorageClass.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For volumes provisioned through a Persistent Volume Claim (PVC), you can set the `backupBlockSize` in the `parameters` section of the `StorageClass`.
```

Example:

```yaml
kind: StorageClass
apiVersion: storage.k8s.io/v1
metadata:
  name: longhorn-example
provisioner: driver.longhorn.io
parameters:
  backupBlockSize: 16Mi
...
```

## Restoring Volume From a Backup

When restoring a volume from backup, the new volume can be configured with a different backup block size.

> **Caution**: This functionality lacks backward compatibility. Attempting to restore a backup that uses a non-default backup block size (anything other than 2MiB) on Longhorn v1.9.x or older systems will result in volume creation with file system corruption.

Reviewer: > This functionality lacks backward compatibility

Longhorn versions prior to v1.10 lack forward compatibility and cannot restore backups created by v1.10 or later. Restoring a backup with a non-default backup block size (anything other than 2 MiB) on Longhorn v1.9.x or older will result in a volume being created with file system corruption.

> When restoring a volume from backup, the new volume can be configured with a different backup block size.
> 
> **Caution**: This functionality lacks backward compatibility. Attempting to restore a backup that uses a non-default backup block size (anything other than 2MiB) on Longhorn v1.9.x or older systems will result in volume creation with file system corruption.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When restoring a volume from a backup, the restored volume can be configured with a different backup block size than the original.

**Caution**: Backups created with a non-default block size (anything other than 2 MiB) are not compatible with Longhorn v1.9.x or earlier. Attempting to restore such backups on older versions may result in file system corruption in the newly created volume.
```
